---
date: 2020-07-31
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/forms/yilu
- power
---

# Power Points in the Yilu

:::{class="relative h-0 overflow-hidden max-w-full w-full" style="padding-top: 56.25%"}
```{=html}
<iframe class="absolute inset-0 w-full h-full" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GriC7VLS8B8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```
:::

## [Notes](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/07/yilu-first-13-moves-power-points-20200717-online-video-trailer/)
* Most of the time, the power is through a split.  The ends must lock / not move.
* Whether it's a split or a lever like after fetch water, the structure must be there.
* The power coming in needs to hit a half-pipe and come back out.  It comes in on the elbow and leaves through the hand.  Vice versa when going out and coming back in.

## Things to work on
* Lock the center and move the two ends; my center always tosses.
* Maintaining the line in single whip.

## Video notes
### [[jingangdaodui]]
* Focal points / where the power is.
* Hands grab hold, power on the elbows.
* First move pulls the opponent in.
* Turn the torso so there's space to come in.
* You want the power to return to the opponent at the end.
* Split hand and foot.
* Power going up through the hand and power coming back down through the elbow.

### [[lancayi]]
* Split hands opening out.
* Use elbow to tear coming in / split elbow to foot stepping out.

### [[liufengsibi]]
* Split hand to rear foot using front kua.

### [[danbian]]
* Use whole body power to send hands out.
* Use right kua to whip hand, throwing left hand out.
* Hands circle to attach, then pull in, similar to first move.

### [[baiheliangchi]]
* Insert foot to inside opponent's feet, then split against hand.
* Block high, attack low.
* Front foot is light because it rotates freely.

### [[louxiaobu]]
* Push down / propel out.
* Close in with elbow.

### [[chushou]]
* Elbow comes in, turns around and hand goes out to lift up, then kick.
* Forearm attaches, doesn't move.  Turn with waist.  Kick right kua for power.

### [[xiexingaobu]]
* Double negative circle: hands touch opponent, use kua to push.
* Fetch water: forearm touch, split kua.
* Power to fingertips, don't move, pump it out.
* Lock hand, rotate shoulder.
* Armpit to kua split.
* Elbows and two kuas come into one point, then split open.
* Then join again on left side, rotate to right.
* Touch with hand, then split with kua to propel.
* Big move like yanking.