---
date: 2020-08-02
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan
- revolution
- rotation
- stepping
- horizontal to vertical
---

# Revolution vs Rotation

:::{class="relative h-0 overflow-hidden max-w-full w-full" style="padding-top: 56.25%"}
```{=html}
<iframe class="absolute inset-0 w-full h-full" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5qfPmUz-eWU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```
:::

## [Notes](http://practicalmethod.com/2010/11/revolution-vs-rotation-online-video/)
### [[rotation]] & [[revolution]]
* A rotation doesn't move.  It can only turn in place.
* Revolution covers distance.
* They must be independent from each other.  You must separate the movement.
* There's a paradox in this idea:  It's not physically possible to do both at the same time, but we must practice as though it is achievable.
* The upper body rotation and stepping to revolve the upper body.
* To be independent, the step must not wobble the rotation of the upper body.
* We make the proportion of the frequency different.  E.g. the upper body rotates at 1x; the lower body rotates at 3x, each 1/3 the size.
* This creates suspension (suspended head).

### Stepping exercise *see video*
* Adding imagined resistance to engage power.
* Converting energy: the horizontal movement must be translated into vertical split.
* That vertical split makes the back strong.
* The hands can only make horizontal moves, because the hands are not grounded.
* Feet are vertical - the hands must line up to the feet.
* `Horizontal to vertical` is generalized as `yin yang reversal`.
* When the head is suspended, the feet are free to be agile.

### Conversion of energy
* Sickle analogy: the pull is vertical, the cut is horizontal.
* If you push the head of the sickle with the same amount of force as you would pull the handle, the cut won't be the same.  The only difference is orientation of energy.
* The source of power has to be on the underside of the knee causing everything else to float.  Everything cannot be floating.  This is the principle of the split (like the S-curve).
* The opponent cannot control the power if the source is not where it touches.
* Rotating the stick while pushing it will stop it from bending.

Stopped at 30m.
