---
date: 2020-08-05
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan
---

# North American Practical Method Training Camp 2018

## [Notes](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/north-american-practical-method-training-camp-2018-notes-by-edward-liaw/)

Reorganizing my notes from the training camp 2 years ago.

### The body must separate into two
* E.g. [[jingangdaodui]]: part of the body faces forward and part of it rotates 45 degrees.

### Create an X
* Make it so tight it turns: everything must be filled solid so that you cannot toss.
* E.g. [[liufengsibi]]: rotate to align the front hand to the rear foot and the rear elbow to the front foot, then lock the hips from rotating and push the front foot to separate from the middle. No action should be in the arms or shoulders (they should feel as though they have not moved).

### Line
* Only one thin line goes forward.
* Everything else has to get out of the way / line up to support it.

### Open backwards
* Place to get a response.
* The aim should be thin.
* Don’t move the contact.
* The move is to open backwards into your foot in line with the aim (without bending).
* Issue to the rear / arrive first:
    * Taiji adage 後發先至 `hòu fā xiān zhì` misinterpreted as attack last, arrive first.

### Create an arch
* The properties of the arch are that the power is on the ends, and the space cannot be accessed. If one end releases, the power surges forward.

### Stance
* Go lower to make space for the kua. A good stance is like an equilateral triangle – the base is wide enough to accommodate the height.

### Independent action drill
* Maintain grip but allow elbow and shoulder to be free to match the other person’s movements.
* Tie the distance between the hand and the dantien and match the force on the hand.
* Another independent action drill: lock the hands in space and pull the dantien in.
* Lock the dantien and stretch the hands out.

### Expansion / compression
* Expand into yourself
* The real hit compresses your opponent against something solid so that the force has no escape except within his body

### Twist / warp
* Twisting evolves into warping (one side expands faster than the other)

### Push / pull
* No push – everything must be a pull.

### Horizontal to vertical
* T bar analogy: horizontal force converts to vertical rotation and vertical force converts to horizontal rotation.
* Each body part should not make horizontal movements.

## Links
* [John](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/north-american-practical-method-training-camp-2018-notes/)
* [Steve](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/napmtc2018-notes-steve-doob/)
* [Paddy](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/north-american-chen-style-practical-method-training-camp-2018-notes-3/)
* [Kelvin](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/notes-for-north-american-practical-method-training-camp-by-kelvin-ho/)
* [Gerry](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/notes-for-north-american-training-camp-by-gerry-hopkins/)
* [Training camp summary](http://practicalmethod.com/2018/08/big-trouble-in-little-iowa/)

