---
date: 2020-08-21
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/jibengong
---

# Double Negative Circle

Missed the start of class :(.

* Missing information is a change.  Originally there may have been two steps of equal weight.  But by missing one, it becomes unweighted.

### Example: Crossing into a door while holding a stick.
1. If the door is 3 ft x 6 ft, holding a 4 ft stick horizontally won't cross.
   * Level 1: rotate the stick vertically.
2. Now with a 10 ft stick you can't cross again.
   * Level 2: rotate it to point through the door.

* When pointed at the opponent, the stick becomes a dot.
* When you work from a 3d point of view, there are no movements.  *need to review the video on this part*
* Elbow coming in has to connect with the dantian crunching.  They have to clutch together.
* Body is like a bicycle wheel, must be connected to the hub with spokes.

### [[pishenchui]] (async double [[negativecircle]])
* On withdrawal of elbow, it must be clear that the hand is fixed and the elbow leads.
* Keep eyes locked to rotate torso.
* Must have a hinge in the middle that's totally independent.  Thin core.  Nose to belly button.
* The shoulder must be like a pulley.  It can't move with the movement.  The movement must slide over it.
* Shoulder must be sunk but cannot go down.
* Hold the chest and push it downward as the elbow comes in.  Lock the point on the shoulder.

### Upright
* Core must be upright, even when it's not upright.
* What it means to be upright: Power from the top holding it.
* _Suspended from the top_ - plumb line.  Top pulling makes it upright.
* Also: Must be _stretched_.  Hung from the top.

### Double downward squeeze (sync double [[negativecircle]])
* Being loose is imitating the movement - missing intent.
* Arm straight such that the move is expressed at the tip.  Don't move the elbow.
* All the movement comes from the feet and only expressed on the hand.
