---
date: 2020-08-31
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/jibengong
---

# Positive Circle Lesson

## [Notes](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/09/chen-zhonghua-online-lesson-20200831-online-video-purchase/)

:::{class="relative h-0 overflow-hidden max-w-full w-full" style="padding-top: 56.25%"}
```{=html}
<iframe class="absolute inset-0 w-full h-full" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WS1xgzN75Qw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```
:::

### Controlled release
* Hold rear shoulder on the way out.

### Outside / inside
* 5 points fighting outward, everything else fights inward

### Cave chest
* Lock shoulders, head, only cave in the chest to drive hand out.
* To train the right intent, put left hand on chest and slide it down as right hand goes out.

### Clear
* Locked part must be locked, moving part must be moving.

### Kua up
* Front kua needs to rotate in turn with waist.  It looks like it comes up towards the shoulder.
* Raise of kua up when coming in, chest pushes down when coming out.
 
### Rear shoulder don't move
* Rear shoulder must not move when turning waist.  Front kua and shoulder has a large move.

### Head
* Rotate your spine not your head.  Don’t move your eyes.  Only a rotation, no movement.

### Hand
* Don’t move hand backwards / towards yourself.
 
### Homework exercise
* 6 sealing 4 closing, face on to mirror, don’t let rear shoulder move, but it rotates.  Do it 1000x.

### [[daoshou]]
* To change the orientation of the hand.  Coming in, it’s pulling from elbow.  Going out, the hand pulls the arm.

### Differentiate the role
* Every body part has a role, but which ones are primary and which ones are secondary (only getting out of the way).

### Knees
* Knee up / knee down.  The body needs to be a physically solid structure, like a bike and the pedals are the knees.  Feels like you make a foot and a half movement, but it looks like no move.

### [[liufengsibi]]
* First one is 70 rear, 30 front.  Front becomes long back becomes short.  Second one switches the pivot to the rear side of body (rear shoulder/kua axis).

