---
date: 2020-09-02
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/forms/yilu
---

# Yilu Lesson 2

## Form corrections
### [Pound mortar](jingangdaodui.md)
* Spine cannot move, it must rotate.
### [Block touching coat](lancayi.md)
### [Six sealing four closing](liufengsibi.md)
### [Single whip](danbian.md)
### [Turn left and pound mortar](jingangdaodui.md)
### [White crane spreads its wings](baiheliangchi.md)
### [Brush knee](louxiaobu.md)
### [First closing](chushou.md)
### [Oblique twist step](xiexingaobu.md)
### [Second closing](zaishou.md)
### Wade forward in twist steps
### [Fist covering hand](yanshouhongchui.md)
### [Pound mortar](jingangdaodui.md)

## Second part
### Cross hands
### [Fist draping over body](pishenchui.md)
### Fold the back
* Stretch not just rotate.
* Don’t drop the hand.
### Fist covering hand downwards
### Step up to push with two hands
* Hand never moves, kua brings it.
### Change palms three times
* Stick on the shoulder and hand,  line up the forearm with the stick then use the elbow to open.  Shun, going along the line of force.
* Make it more distinct, find the line with the hands and just do the line, don’t add too much movement.
### Fist under elbow
* Two arms in a pipe, rear arm turns over.  To anti-knot.
### Reversed coiling of forearm
### [White crane spreads its wings](baiheliangchi.md)
### [Brush knee](louxiaobu.md)
### Flash the back
### Step forward to punch covering hand
### Step back and block touching coat
### [Six sealing four closing](liufengsibi.md)
### [Single whip](danbian.md)

## Additional corrections
### Straight lines
* Head like a flag pole, hands like the flag.  Don’t let the head follow the hands.

* Straight lines in the body, clearly expressed.

* Extend in fetch water, how big?

### Empty
* When you stretch, the inside is empty (the power is on the ends).  If your body has protrusions it’s not empty.
* Emptiness is power.  Like under a bridge.  Load-bearing.

### Grip
* Toes, fingers, stomach muscles and teeth all grip at the same time.  So the power goes to your head.
