---
date: 2020-10-29T17:14
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/forms/yilu
---

# Yilu class
## Paul Carlson
* Stretch out more, didn’t finish
* Need to have the stretch (vertical stretch).  Only the horizontal stretch.

## John Upshaw
### Single whip
* 5% size increase in stance: too square.  Lock the kua and push foot into kua to kickstart it.
* Lead with the kua not the shoulders.
* If the kua goes down and the shoulder does not allow it to go down, it causes the arm to rotate.
### Rub foot
* On the turn: you are fighting at the shoulders.  Lock the shoulders.  Just the kua.  Only twist at the kua.
* Class 1 indirect power - there is distance.  When turning a screwdriver, you turn it holding the handle not the tip.
* Kua is one piece (not a matter of front kua and back kua).
* Turning from the heels is even stronger.
* Implement this in everything you do.
### Kick with heel
* Sink buttock down until it lines up with heel.  Adjust chest so there is a straight line (so the other movements are all free).  Center never moves.
* Spread toes like a web, foot should be like a tripod, spread out.
* Legs too sluggish, need agility like a bird or cat.
### Punch to the ground
* Never move the top, just adjust the knee.  Only drop the forearm (don’t bend over).  Elbow stays down.  Just turn with the waist to drive hand out.
* In with elbow to do the other rotation.
### End of double kick
* Rhythm is: chorus, then syncopation, then chorus.  Arms back, left foot out as arms come over.  Right foot in, turn waist until arms are in, then right foot out against hands.  Settle, and fist protecting heart.
### Fist protecting heart
* Forearm should be horizontal to chest.

## Albert
* Similar to Paul Carlson, not enough vertical stretch.  Only enough to maintain continuity.
* Needs focus.  Needs to be clear that there is the vertical stretch.

## Simon
* Do it with no hand / elbow / shoulder move.
* Needs to be totally on the kua.  Showed that section with no arms:  only stretching of the kua, upper body not moving like a rotating cylinder.

## Paddy
* Straighten the arm (wrist).  Until you don’t feel strength / feedback there.
* Throw the fist out.  Use the kua to throw it out.

