---
date: 2020-11-02
tags:
- timeline
- taijiquan/jibengong
---

# Foundations class

* Cannot move hands, cannot move knees, head does not move, two feet do not move.  Only move the inside.

* Elbow left behind, kua left behind.  Have to practice until they are leading.  Even though hand is still in front.

### Intent
* Intention means that on the surface you can’t tell.
* Two sides are locked, they carry weight.  And it’s the top of the triangle that pushes down.
* Lock the shoulder and the hand.  And only open from the elbow.

### Lead
* How you lead your action is very important.
* Rubber cord example.  A top point, B middle, and C bottom point.  Lead with A, it hangs down.  Lead with C, it hangs down and flips over.  But without a frame of reference it looks like the same as A.  When B leads, it’s totally different (hangs by the middle).

### Hard and soft
* Hard like a stick, soft like a rope.  On your body at the same time.  When you give it tension it becomes a stick.  When you release tension it becomes a rope.

### Elbow drill
* Elbow place on the bottom, but the movement is upward.  Hand A Elbow B Shoulder C.  Elbow must move toward AC line.

### Wedge power
* Wedge power is when you move the middle.
* Only the middle part of a doorstop touches the door.  You make the movement to push the stop in (moves the middle because that is what touches the door).

### Leaking
* Shoulder moving back leaks power (sideways).  Going down will not leak (different dimension).
* Stretch can be called extension.

## Links
* [Kelvin](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/11/master-chen-zhonghuas-online-lesson-on-nov-2-2020-kelvin-ho/)
* [Pawel](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/11/master-chen-zhonghuas-online-lesson-on-nov-2-2020-pawel-muller/)
* [Raymond](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/11/master-chen-online-foundations-lessons-notes-2-november-2020-raymond-dickey/)
* [Brian](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/11/foundation-class-notes-master-chen-zhonghua-online-zoom-lesson-mon-2-nov-2020-brian-chung/)
* [Carlotta](http://practicalmethod.com/2020/11/foundation-class-notes-master-chen-zhonghuas-online-lesson-mon-2-nov-2020/)
